---
date: "December 2016"
title: "Gaze"
role: "Composer"
teaser: ""
frontpage: true

categories:
  - instrumental
  - chamber

header:
  image_fullwidth: "placeholder.gif"
---

**Personnel:**

Gisbert Watty - Guitar

Luciano Tristano - Flute

Performed at Monash University Prato Centre in 2016

**Notes:**

The piece draws on the psychoanalytical concept of the gaze, a state of anxiety that a subject develops upon the realisation that one can be seen by others and with that too, the loss of autonomy, particularly with women in contemporary Western culture. Its distillation into media and literature has become its apparatus through to castrate women by presenting them, as Mulvey puts it "(passive) raw material for the (active) male gaze".

The Tuscan ballads from the 14th century from Landini's Ballata particularly strike me immediately as an early example of the male gaze passivating its female subject in this body of work, in this case quite aggressively. This piece is my tongue-in-cheek response, consisting of two sections. The first using material generated from a cipher of an English translation of Landini's Non dò la colp' a te, the second as a response, from a poem by Reddit user Poem for your Sprog. The ciphers were then divided at each word boundary and each word treated as its own pitch set.

Although the processes are similar in both sections, I tried to
distort the materials to contrast the two sections and also match them better to the character of the underlying text. The first section, a distorted, lyrical send up of the ballad prolonging moments diatonicism and sparse phrasing; the second section, a loud, percussive, and callous.

**Texts:**

Landini – _Non dò la colp'_

> I do not blame you for the pain I feel, <br />
> only your eyes which have killed me. <br />
> Nature has given you the splendour of exceptional beauty, <br />
> which is to your great benefit, <br />
> but is also to the great torment of your servant, <br />
> who looks at you and dies for your loveliness. <br />
> From your beautiful eyes emanates the charm <br />
> which subtly has conquered my mind and heart. <br />
> I do not blame you <br />

translation: Lucy E. Cross

Poem for your Sprog - Untitled

> He stated his feelings. <br />
> I kindly declined. <br />
> ‘What is it?’ he argued - <br />
> ‘I’m nice,’ he opined. <br />
> ‘I’m friendly. I’m funny. <br />
> I’m caring. I share. <br />
> I’m loyal and thoughtful, <br />
> And this isn’t fair.’ <br />
> I nodded politely, <br />
> And looked for an out. <br />
> ‘So why don’t you like me?’ <br />
> He said with a pout. <br />
> ‘You owe me an answer - <br />
> A text or a call - <br />
> You ought to be grateful <br />
> I asked you at all.’ <br />
> ‘You won’t get another - <br />
> Don’t throw this away.’ <br />
> He smiled at me, selfless: <br />
> ‘So what do you say?’ <br />
> I pondered a moment <br />
> And thought with a sigh - <br />
> Then changed my answer <br />
> To ‘fuck off and die.’ <br />

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/330173264&amp;color=ff5500&amp;auto_play=false&amp;hide_related=false&amp;show_comments=true&amp;show_user=true&amp;show_reposts=false"></iframe>
