---
date: "May 2018"
title: "Int Rf.renCe"
role: "Composer"
teaser: ""
frontpage: true

categories:
  - acousmatic
  - electronic

header:
  image_fullwidth: "placeholder.gif"
---

**Notes:**

This work is part protest piece and part ode to the unique aesthetics and idiosyncrasies of the virtualised, digital hyperreality that we inhabit as contemporary subjects. With the death of John Perry Barlow in February of 2018, I felt even more compelled to create this piece.

On February 8th, 1996, John Perry Barlow, the founder of the Electronic Frontier Foundation published his seminal paper, A Declaration of Independence of Cyberspace. The paper was a direct response to the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which was the first legislation that sought, among other things, to regulate the Internet and its content. Barlow's paper presents a revolutionary vision of the Internet, where ideas and information can be freely exchanged and that the Internet can self-regulate under its own sovereignty rather than through government. The paper opens:

"Governments of the Industrial World, you weary giants of flesh and steel, I come from Cyberspace, the new home of Mind. On behalf of the future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone. You are not welcome among us. You have no sovereignty where we gather."

22 years on, the digital landscape has changed significantly and the fight for online freedom continues as issues of copyright, net neutrality, data collection, privacy and regulation are fought out between governments, corporations and users alike.

Int_rf.renCe reflects these issues in its structures and processes. The primary material of this work is a recording of John Perry Barlow reading A Declaration of Independence of Cyberspace. The speech exists almost in its entirety in this piece and yet none of it is decipherable. The speech recording underwent a number of different processes to fragment the material and reorganise it, in effect censoring the speech through fragmentation and layering.

In the first section, the primarily voiced parts of syllables and words were edited out leaving only the sibilants, plosives, glottal stops and tails as well as breaths and background noise. Various thresholds were applied to retain different durations between the words and syllables which could be extracted. The removed material was gathered together, time-stretched and layered forming all of the pitch material in this section in the form of various drone-like textures. The speech plays a major role in every aspect of this section, not just in terms of the sound objects from it that furnish this section but also elements of the structure and the effects processing itself. Elements such as breaths and background noise from the recording were used as impulse responses to create the reverbs in this piece.

The second section starkly contrasts the material in the first section. Here glitch art methodologies of sonification and data-moshing contribute to its distinctly digital aesthetic. Various raw digital data was read as PCM audio to create a large library digital sounds which form the primary material of this section including a PDF of the entire text of the paper itself, which was also sonified and used in the piece. This section is also the only instance where sections of the recording are played in order without editing, but are distorted through spectral processing and aggressive downsampling as another form of censorship.

The final section combines materials of the first and second sections, reconciling the aggressively digital sound world with the distinctly human vocal sounds.

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" allow="autoplay" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/437172906&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>
