---
layout: page
sidebar: left
subheadline: New electroacoustic cello work
title:  "Androids"
teaser: ""
breadcrumb: false
tags:
    - theatre
categories:
    - blog
---


Since June, I have been musical director & sound designer on a
production of “ *Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?”. *The text was
originally adapted from the Phillip K. Dick novel by Edward Einhorn for
the Untitled Theatre company production in 2010 which an original score
(including six arias) for cello and loop pedal composed by Henry Akona. 

In this 2013 production at La Trobe, directed by Bob Pavlich, I have
been enlisted to adapt and orchestrate the layered score to best suit
this particular production. From the outset, I knew it would be a
challenge in terms of handling all Henry’s underscoring (which actually
covers most of the play) as well as preparing Luna (played by Sarah
Wall) for her arias, which own up to strong Schoenberg and Stravinsky
influences. As such, they present many challenges to the performer in
terms of intonation and even more so, rhythm. Nonetheless, we’re
definitely in a good place with all the arias learnt. They’re already
shaping into excellent performances.

Now in the fourth week of rehearsals after weeks of experimenting,
recording, sequencing, editing, attending rehearsals, taking frantic
notes, rinsing and repeating we have finally reached the plotting
stage. This has to be one of the most sonically dense productions I have
ever worked on. Over three days, I have plotted 115 sound cues (90
triggered and 25 auto-follow) for this 90 minute show. Today is the last
rehearsal before we head into the venue two weeks from now. In the mean
time, we are having a break from rehearsals while Bob runs this year’s
Short Works season. I can’t wait to get this into the venue!

**Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?**

-   When: 29th Aug - 8th Sep \
    *(stay tuned for more specific dates and booking information)*
-   Where: Northcote Town Hall, Studio One

